Network Working Group                                         Y. Rekhter
Request for Comments: 1918                                    B. Moskowitz
BCP: 5                                                    D. Karrenberg
Category: Best Current Practice                           G. J. de Groot
                                                               E. Lear
                                                           February 1996


             Address Allocation for Private Internets

Status of this Memo

   This document specifies an Internet Best Current Practice for the
   Internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
   improvements. Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

Abstract

   For the purposes of this document, an enterprise is an entity
   autonomously operating a network using TCP/IP and in particular
   determining the addressing plan and address assignments within that
   network.

   This document describes address allocation for private internets.
   The allocation permits full network layer connectivity among all
   hosts within an enterprise as well as connectivity among all
   public hosts of different enterprises. The cost of this
   is that outside connectivity is lost for the hosts with private
   addresses.

1. Introduction

   With the rapid growth of the Internet, the pool of available IP
   addresses has become increasingly scarce. Many enterprises that
   operate networks do not actually require connectivity to the global
   Internet for all of their hosts. Such enterprises may use IP
   addresses from a reserved block without obtaining global uniqueness.

   This document defines a set of address ranges that enterprises MAY
   use internally without coordination with IANA or an Internet
   registry. These addresses are not routable on the public Internet.

2. Motivation

   With the implementation of classless inter-domain routing (CIDR),
   the Internet address space is used more efficiently. However,
   Internet-connected enterprises still consume globally unique address
   space even when global connectivity is not required for every host.

   Hosts that do not require connectivity to the global Internet or to
   hosts in other enterprises may use IP addresses from the private
   address space defined below. This conserves the globally unique
   address space for hosts that do require such connectivity.

   Because the private address space is not globally routable, packets
   addressed to these ranges MUST NOT be forwarded by Internet backbone
   routers. Enterprises using private addresses and requiring
   connectivity to the Internet MUST use a mechanism such as Network
   Address Translation (NAT) or application proxies at the boundary.

3. Private Address Space

   The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) has reserved the
   following three blocks of the IP address space for private internets:

     10.0.0.0        -   10.255.255.255  (10/8 prefix)
     172.16.0.0      -   172.31.255.255  (172.16/12 prefix)
     192.168.0.0     -   192.168.255.255 (192.168/16 prefix)

   We will refer to the first block as "24-bit block", the second as
   "20-bit block", and to the third as "16-bit block". Note that (in
   pre-CIDR notation) the first block is nothing but a single class A
   network number, while the second block is a set of 16 contiguous
   class B network numbers, and the third block is a set of 256
   contiguous class C network numbers.

   An enterprise that decides to use IP addresses out of the address
   space defined in this document can do so without any coordination
   with IANA or an Internet registry. The address space can thus be
   used by many enterprises. Addresses within this private address
   space will only be unique within the enterprise, or the set of
   enterprises which choose to cooperate over this space so they may
   communicate with each other in their own private internet.

   As before, any enterprise that needs globally unique address space
   is required to obtain such addresses from an Internet registry.

4. Recommended Practice

   We suggest that enterprises that need to isolate their networks
   from external networks deploy private addressing in their network
   using the address blocks defined above.

   Hosts within enterprises that use private IP addresses can access
   the Internet either through application-layer gateways or through
   address translators. The latter approach allows many hosts with
   private addresses to share a smaller number of globally unique IP
   addresses.

   Internet routers MUST NOT forward packets with private source or
   destination addresses. This includes:

     - 10.0.0.0/8
     - 172.16.0.0/12
     - 192.168.0.0/16

   Route information about private networks MUST NOT be propagated on
   inter-enterprise links. Routers in networks not using private
   address space MUST be configured to reject routing information about
   private networks from external sources.

   Private addresses MUST NOT appear in the Domain Name System (DNS)
   in a way that could allow them to be resolved by outside parties.

5. Security Considerations

   Filtering of private address space by Internet routers provides a
   degree of defense in depth. Because these addresses are not globally
   routable, they cannot be the source of spoofed packets that appear
   to originate from a legitimate public Internet host.

   However, using private addresses does not provide security on its
   own. Enterprises using private address space still require proper
   firewalls, access controls, and security policies. Private addressing
   is a tool for address conservation and isolation, not a security
   mechanism.

6. References

   RFC 1466  Gerich, E., "Guidelines for Management of IP Address
             Space", May 1993.

   RFC 1597  Rekhter, Y., Moskowitz, B., Karrenberg, D., and G. de
             Groot, "Address Allocation for Private Internets",
             March 1994. (Obsoleted by this document.)

   RFC 1627  Lear, E., Fair, E., Crocker, D., and T. Kessler, "Network
             10 Considered Harmful (Some Practices Shouldn't be
             Codified)", July 1994. (Obsoleted by this document.)

Authors' Addresses

   Yakov Rekhter
   Cisco Systems

   Bob Moskowitz
   Chrysler Corp

   Daniel Karrenberg
   RIPE NCC

   Geert Jan de Groot
   RIPE NCC

   Eliot Lear
   Silicon Graphics, Inc.
